Release 1.3.0 (#2941)
kanidm/kanidm: RELEASE_NOTES.md

# Release Notes

## 2024-08-07 - Kanidm 1.3.0

This is the latest stable release of the Kanidm Identity Management project. Every release is
the combined effort of our community and we appreciate their invaluable contributions, comments,
questions, feedback and support.

You should review our
[support documentation](https://github.com/kanidm/kanidm/blob/master/book/src/support.md)
as this may have important effects on your distribution or upgrades in future.

Before upgrading you should review [our upgrade documentation](https://kanidm.github.io/kanidm/stable/server_updates.html#general-update-notes)

> 

Reviewer: We should stick to a single linking strategy - one links to the book source in master, the other links to the compiled book in stable? 😄

Author: Oopppp,s good point.

### 1.3.0 Important Changes

- New GID number constraints are now enforced in this version. To upgrade from 1.2.0 all accounts
  and groups must adhere to these rules. See [our upgrade documentation].
  about tools to help you detect and correct affected entries.

> - Oauth2 URI require stricter matching rules to be applied from 1.4.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- OAuth2 URIs require stricter matching rules to be applied from 1.4.0.
```

- Security Keys will be removed as a second factor alternative to TOTP from accounts in 1.4.0. It
  has not been possible to register a new security for more than 1 year. Security Keys are surpassed
  by PassKeys which give a better user experience.
- Kanidm now supports FreeBSD and Illumos in addition to Linux

### 1.3.0 Release Highlights

- TOTP update user interface improvements
- Improved error messages when a load balancer is failing
- Reduced server log noise to improve event clarity
- Replace jemalloc with mimalloc
- User session storage can optionally use cookies
- Strictly enforce same-version for backup/restore processes
- Allow name self-write to be withheld
- Add support for LDAP Compare operations
- Upgrade Axum HTTP framework to the latest stable
- Reduced memory usage
- Improved update flow when changing from dev to stable server versions
- PIV authentication foundations
- Significant improvements to performance for write and search operations
- Support Illumos
- Begin rewrite of the webui

> - Oauth2 allows multiple origins
> - Lengthen replication mtls certificate life
> - Unixd allows home paths to be in an external mount folder
> - Strict redirect URI enforcement in Oauth2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- OAuth2 allows multiple origins
- Lengthen replication MTLS certificate lifetime
- UNIX daemon allows home paths to be in an external mount folder
- Strict redirect URI enforcement in OAuth2
```
